

This a model from the article:  
**Excitation-contraction coupling and extracellular calcium transients in rabbit atrium: reconstruction of basic cellular mechanisms.**   
Hilgemann DW, Noble D. _Proc R Soc Lond B Biol Sci_ 1987 Mar
23;230(1259):163-205 [2884668](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2884668) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Interactions of electrogenic sodium-calcium exchange, calcium channel and
sarcoplasmic reticulum in the mammalian heart have been explored by simulation
of extracellular calcium transients measured with tetramethylmurexide in
rabbit atrium. The approach has been to use the simplest possible formulations
of these mechanisms, which together with a minimum number of additional
mechanisms allow reconstruction of action potentials, intracellular calcium
transients and extracellular calcium transients. A 3:1 sodium-calcium exchange
stoichiometry is assumed. Calcium-channel inactivation is assumed to take
place by a voltage-dependent mechanism, which is accelerated by a rise in
intracellular calcium; intracellular calcium release becomes a major
physiological regulator of calcium influx via calcium channels. A calcium
release mechanism is assumed, which is both calcium- and voltage-sensitive,
and which undergoes prolonged inactivation. 200 microM cytosolic calcium
buffer is assumed. For most simulations only instantaneous potassium
conductances are simulated so as to study the other mechanisms independently
of time- and calcium-dependent outward current. Thus, the model reconstructs
extracellular calcium transients and typical action-potential configuration
changes during steady-state and non-steady-state stimulation from the
mechanisms directly involved in trans-sarcolemmal calcium movements. The model
predicts relatively small trans-sarcolemmal calcium movements during regular
stimulation (ca. 2 mumol kg-1 fresh mass per excitation); calcium current is
fully activated within 2 ms of excitation, inactivation is substantially
complete within 30 ms, and sodium-calcium exchange significantly resists
repolarization from approximately -30 mV. Net calcium movements many times
larger are possible during non-steady-state stimulation. Long action
potentials at premature excitations or after inhibition of calcium release can
be supported almost exclusively by calcium current (net calcium influx 5-30
mumol kg-1 fresh mass); action potentials during potentiated post-stimulatory
contractions can be supported almost exclusively by sodium-calcium exchange
(net calcium efflux 4-20 mumol kg-1 fresh mass). Large calcium movements
between the extracellular space and the sarcoplasmic reticulum can take place
through the cytosol with virtually no contractile activation. The simulations
provide integrated explanations of electrical activity, contractile function
and trans-sarcolemmal calcium movements, which were outside the explanatory
range of previous models.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Hilgemann DW, Noble D. (1987) - version06**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/hilgemann_noble_1987_version06)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Noble, Penny, J**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
Oxford University  
Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

